
# Capstone Assessment - Tamer
My design project aims to solve a common problem that I have both noticed other people having and encountered myself and still do. I am hungry and want to eat but don't know what to eat, what to cook, or how to cook it. Using software to solve small problems like this while not complicated is aimed to improve quality of life by finding unique dishes to eat without looking for something specific. This helps give a broader range of cuisine to cook and try everday avoiding cooking the same thing everyday or ordering out. Also avoiding the hassle of finding recipes and ingredients should you need them which would be gathered into a shopping cart and purchased with a click of a button. With a emphasis on making the application as simple and user friendly as possible, as even the best application if not enjoyable to use can outweigh the pro's in my opinion.

Using what I learned during my time at university to create the best application possible with my current knowledge. I have taken many courses that I believe will aid me in this process core subjects such as (CS2028) Data Structures for the foundation of my code and every developer. Requirements engineering (CS5127) and (CS5128) Large scale software engineering, to be able to plan and determine what needs to be done, what are my priorities, what order should I do it and how to keep everything documented. Design and Analysis of algorithms (CS4071) for designing my backend and optimizing for efficiency. For the web app portion cloud computing has helped me get a understanding on AWS, Azure, Docker and how cloud services work. Lastly a new and interesting topic being Artificial Intelligence (CS4033), implementing AI into application could make many things easier, more robust, and more unique.

Working at TQL as a developer also gave me a better understanding on solving, debugging problems. Being able to use the right tools to make my job easier to diagnose a problem so I have more time to solve it and make it easier has been one of the main things I have learned. As well as automating tasks to create a faster and better experience both for the user and developer. I covered a lot of the overall process of developing software and knowing what to look for and what not to look for and have has been another handy thing I learned. As well as Interning at MatchMD and seeing the different technologies used in different industries has given me a broader perspective and development. Learning the early stages of engineering during this time it has made me a more efficient problem solver and learner, so I know how to quickly tackle something and get it done even with no prior experience.

My motivation for this project is to create a web/mobile application and expand my knowledge with different languages and frameworks. I am interested in becoming a full stack developer adding more technologies to my knowledge base is something I aim to do with this project. Creating applications that make it to production and are able to be used and brought to the users hands is something I enjoy as well. With this project I would like to emphasize front end and UI/UX development more over function and backend as that is a field I am interested in improving. This also gives me a chance to use different technologies I like in a project, potentially focusing more on Swift and React development and finding a way to implement Artificial Intelligence into the project. As well as potentially being able to continue the project after university and build on top of it to add it to my portfolio or finding a way to monitize it.

My approach to the design and development process is starting to get more refined as I gain more experience. What works for me is figuring out what I want from the application, what are nice-to-haves, and where to focus less attention on. After this I make a flowchart on how the application is going to work and interact with the front and back end as well as the user. My next step is to create a proof of concept application and then refining and redeveloping from there. I expect to be able to quickly get something useable up and running and seeing how useful the basic essential functions are. I find determining how well I have done by seeing how will the app works and feels as if I were user with the technical capabilities of my target audience. If I think it is going well I will continue, if not I am not limited to sticking with my original design, flowchart, code, or intended purpose of the project and find it more beneficial reshaping the project or doing something different with the project.
